Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going
to explain a science fiction horror film
called “Splice,” Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
Clive Nicoli and Elsa Kast are a genetic
engineer couple working for a company named
Nucleic Exchange Research and Development (NERD).
Their primary job at the company is to conduct
research on splicing several animals' DNA to
create hybrid creatures with unique qualities.
The company’s aim is to use the unique compounds
found in the hybrid’s body to create medicines
that can treat most of the diseases in the world.
At the beginning of the movie, we see Clive and
Elsa bring out a successful hybrid male creature.
They name the creature Fred and put him with their
previous successful female creature named Ginger.
Everyone watches in fascination as Fred and Ginger
meet for the first time and create a ball-like
shape with their tongues to greet each other.
Later, Clive and Elsa are in a meeting with the
CEO of the company, Joan Chorot. Joan is delighted
with the result of their experiment and wants to
start extracting genetic materials that will help
them create medicines immediately. The couple
puts forward an idea of forming a human hybrid
since that will give them many more varieties of
compounds to choose from. Using such compounds,
diseases like Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and even
some forms of cancer can be treated. However,
Joan wants to focus on the existing hybrids
at the moment. Elsa insists that if they don’t
do it first, someone else will. But the CEO is
adamant about her decision. The couple comes out
of the meeting disheartened and angry, however,
they do not plan to back down. Since the company
won’t allow them to conduct the experiment,
they decide to do it on their own. At the lab,
Elsa gets human DNA from a random donor and
the two start to experiment splicing it with
animals’ DNA as they did with Fred and Ginger.
When they fail to match the DNA for the first
couple of tries, Elsa suggests they bring out
another person’s DNA and continue the experiment.
She hands Clive a sample, claiming that it is the
best human DNA she could find. The two finally
get the temperature right and the splicing is
successful. Now, they will have to incubate the
cell and allow it to develop into a fetus. But,
since human cloning is illegal and is considered
highly unethical in genetic engineering, Clive
wants to stop the experiment. Elsa, however,
insists they continue, just to see if the
splicing was actually successful. She insists
that the experiment will be controlled so it
wouldn’t matter even if they fail. Clive obliges
and puts the cells in an incubator. The couple
watches as the cells begin to multiply rapidly.
The following morning, Elsa checks how much
the creature has developed and is surprised
to see it developing at an exponential rate.
Later, the couple is at their home when they
get an emergency message from the lab. They
rush there to see the fetus has developed
fully, way earlier than its due date.
The two break the incubator and a slimy creature
falls to the ground. They leave after putting
the creature in a safe place. The next morning,
Clive tells Elsa that they have to kill the fetus
because it can be dangerous. Elsa doesn’t want to
kill it just yet but knows that they will be
in huge trouble if anyone finds out about the
creature. The couple goes to the lab, only to
find the creature is already dead. When Elsa
opens the cell, she sees it is just the outer
skin of the creature, meaning that the creature
is alive and is somewhere near her. Just then, it
screeches from the ceiling. Clive, from outside,
asks Elsa to get out so they can fill the room
with poisonous gas and kill the creature. But
Elsa does the opposite and opens out her hand
to the newborn, calling it near her. Just then,
Clive comes in, scaring the creature. The couple
comes out of the room and knocks the creature out
using a gas. After examining it, they find out
that she is a female and is growing rapidly.
At this rate, she will be dead in months, so
they plan to make the best of the time she has
and observe her instead of killing her.
The x-rays show a tumor inside her body which the
couple is confused about. The creature also has a
sharp venomous tail that she uses for her defense.
It is now a week after the creature was born.
Clive tries to feed her but she doesn’t cooperate.
The couple soon figures out that she only likes
sweet food which makes it easier for them to
feed her. Elsa starts treating the little girl as
her own child. She dresses her up and teaches the
creature to spell her name. The little creature
spells the word “NERD” copying the words on Elsa’s
shirt. Elsa is surprised by her intelligence
and names the girl Dren, an anagram of Nerd.
Just then, Clive arrives and accuses Elsa of
treating Dren like a pet. They begin to argue
loudly which is heard by Clive’s brother, Gavin
who also works at NERD. He sneaks into their
lab and is attacked by Dren. Elsa scolds the
girl and asks her to go away. Clive tries to
explain the situation to Gavin, who is pissed
off about them doing an illegal experiment.
The couple knows that they cannot keep Dren in the
lab anymore, so they bring her to the basement of
the facility. When they reach there, the creature
gets a fever and stops breathing. Clive puts her
into a cold bath and the couple realize that
Dren’s tumor was actually an amphibian lung,
so she can breathe underwater as well. The time
comes when the couple has to present Ginger and
Fred to the media at a conference. They present
the creatures together but the conference soon
turns into chaos when the creatures begin to
fight each other creating a bloodbath. Later,
Clive and Elsa brief what went wrong to the CEO
Joan. It turns out that Ginger has somehow changed
her sex and turned into a male. So, the tension
between the two males caused them to fight.
The couple had been so busy with Dren that they
didn’t even notice when Ginger changed her gender.
Due to all of this, Joan orders them to stop all
the splicing processes and somehow synthesize
the protein they need at any cost. The whole
facility will be taken over in a few days so
Dren has to be taken somewhere safe.
The couple plan to take her to Elsa’s
mother’s old farmhouse in the middle of
nowhere. That way, Dren can be safe and
can have more freedom. A few months later,
she has turned into an adult now. Later,
Elsa and Clive bring Dren to the barn but she runs
away scared. The duo finds her devouring a rabbit
nearby and takes her inside. Elsa scolds a visibly
sad Dren, making her jump into a water tank.
Clive believes she needs to be alone for a while
so they two work on cleaning the place for her.
At night, Dren refuses to eat and makes the
words “Tedious” and “Outside” with the alphabets,
claiming that she is bored and wants to go
outside. When Elsa says she cannot do that,
Dren gets aggressive and runs outside through
the skylight window. The couple climbs up to
the roof to see that she has grown wings
and is about to fly away. Clive calls her
back claiming that he loves her. Hearing this,
Dren hugs him and agrees to go inside again.
The next day, Elsa and Dren are together when
Elsa finds pictures of Clive that Dren has drawn.
She is starting to harbor feelings for him. Just
then, Dren finds a cat and plays with it but Elsa
takes it from her, fearing that she will kill
it as well. Clive comes home to a sad Dren and
dances with her to make her happy. While dancing
he suddenly realizes that Elsa used her own DNA
to create Dren. Clive angrily confronts Elsa
for putting herself into the experiment. But
Elsa dismisses the matter, claiming that they have
come too far to talk about that now. The next day,
Elsa brings a cat to Dren as a gift, thinking
that she should get a chance to have more friends,
but to her surprise, Dren kills the cat
with her tail and attacks Elsa as well.
A surprised Elsa lies on the ground as Dren takes
the keys from her and opens the door. But before
she can run away, Elsa knocks her out and ties
her to a table. Fed up with Dren, she has decided
to cut her tail so she wouldn’t be dangerous to
anyone anymore. Clive walks in to find a naked
Dren lying tied on the table and her tail cut
off. He feels bad for the girl and frees her.
Later, he is monitoring Dren through cameras
fitted in her room. He lovingly touches her
through the screen but stops once he
realizes what he is doing. Meanwhile,
Elsa is in the lab and has successfully managed to
create the protein using venom from Dren’s tail.
She rushes to the farmhouse to tell Clive
the good news. Clive, on the other hand,
walks into Dren’s room and is greeted by Dren who
kisses him. He tries to retaliate but eventually
gives in and has intercourse with the creature.
Elsa walks into the room and is horrified at the
sight. She runs away angrily while Clive follows
her behind, apologizing. Later, after having a
long conversation, they finally decide to kill
Dren and get rid of the problem once and for all.
But when they return back to the farm, they find
her already on the verge of death. Because of her
being a rapidly developing creature, her lifetime
has ended. The couple stays beside her as she
takes her last breath. Elsa cries, mourning the
death of her daughter-like creature. Heartbroken,
the two bury the body outside. Just then, Clive’s
brother Gavin arrives with an official from NERD.
They have found human DNA in the protein
samples and are here to see the creature.
Elsa tells them she is dead but a loud screech
is heard right then. It turns out that Dren
wasn’t dead after all. She has changed into a
male like Ginger did and has turned aggressive.
The male Dren kills Gavin and his friend within
seconds. It drags Clive into a pond and then
chases after Elsa. Soon, Elsa is caught
by the male Dren who uses his regenerated
sharp tail to tear off her clothes and starts
forcefully mating with her. Sometime later,
Clive comes to her aid and stabs Dren with a
log. It does the creature little to no harm
as he regenerates quickly. Dren is about to kill
Clive when Elsa bashes his head with a rock.
She does it repeatedly but stops midway pitying
the creature. However, Dren takes the chance to
strike Clive with his tail and kill him. Seeing
him kill her boyfriend, Elsa strikes the creature
several times and finally kills him.
It is now a few months after the incident.
Elsa sits with Joan who offers her a deal. It
turns out that Elsa was impregnated by Dren
and is bearing his child. Jude wants to use the
miracle kid to create medicines for the betterment
of mankind. Elsa accepts the deal saying that
she has nothing to lose. The movie proves how
dangerous it is to play with nature. Scientific
inventions and advancements should be done for
mankind’s benefit but humans shouldn’t try to
change the course of nature along the way.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.